# Functions returning Non-Integers

Refer to code in ./4.FunctionsAndProgramStructure/atof.c

A calling routine of the atof.c function must know that `atof` returns a non-int value. One way to ensure this is to declare `atof` explicitly in the calling routine. 

```c
int main () 
{
    double sum,  atof(char []);
    ...

    sum += atof(line);
    
    ...
}
```

The declaration `double sum, atof(char[]);` says that `atof` is a function that takes one `char []`argument and returns a double.

The function `atof` must be declared and defined consistently. If `atof`itself and the call to it in `main`have inconsistent types in the same source file, the error will be detected by the compiler. But if (as is more likely) `atof`were compiled separately, that mismatch would not be detected, `atof`would return a `double` that `main`would treat as an `int`, and meaningless answers would result.

The reason mismatch can happen is that there is no function prototype, a function is implicitly declared by its first appearance in an expression such as
```c
    sum += atof(line);
```
If a name has not been previously been declared in an expression and is followed by a left parentheses, it is declared by context to be a function and is assumed to return an `int`, and nothing is assumed about its arguments, as in
```c
    double atof();
```
that too is taken to mean that nothing is to be assumed about the arguments of `atof`; all parameter checking is turnedd off. 

If a function takes arguments, declare them; if it takes no arguments, use `void`.

Given `atof`, properly declared, we could write `atoi`(convert a string to `int`) in terms of it:
```c
/* atoi: convert string s to integer using atof */
int atoi(char s[])
{
    double atof(char s[]);

    return (int) atof(s);
} 
```
The value of the expression in 
```c
return expression;
```
is converted to the type of the function before the return is taken. Therefore the value of `atof`, a double, is converted automatically to `int`when it appears in this `return`, since the function `atoi`returns an `int`. 
