# External Variables

A C program consists of a set of external objects, which are either variables or functions. The adjective "external" is used in contrast to "internal", which describes the arguments and variables defined inside functions. 

External variables are defined outside of any function, and are thus potentially available to many functions to be defined inside other functions.

Functions themselves are always external because C does not allow functions to be defined inside other functions.
By default, external variables and functions have the property that all references to them by the same name, even from functions compiled separately, are references to the same thing. (The standard calls this property _external linkage_.).

Because external variables are globally accessible, they provide an alternative to function arguments and return values for communicating data between functions.

Any function may access an external variable by referring to it by name, if the name has been declared somehow.
If a large number of variables must be shared among functions, external variables are more convenient and efficient than long argument lists.

External variables are also useful because of their greater scope and lifetime. Automatic variables are internal to a function; they come into existence when the function is entered, and disappear when it is left. External variables, on the other hand, are permanent, so they can retain values from one function invocation to the next. Thus if two functions must share some data, yet neither calls the other, it is often most convenient if the shared data is kept in external variables rather than being passed in and out via arguments.

 >  See example on Reverse Polish Calculator in 4.FunctionsAndProgramStructure/PolishCaculator for the explanation below

Structure of the program:
```text
while (next operator or operand is not end-of-file indicator)
	if (number)
		push it
	else if (operator)
		pop operands
		do operation
		push result
	else if (newline)
		pop and print top of stack
	else
		error
```
### Comments on code in polishcal.c:
Because + and * are commutative operators, the order in which the popped operands are combined is irrelevant, but for - and / the left and right operand must be distinguished.
The function `main` is a loop containing a big `switch` on the type of operator or operand.

### Comments on code in stack.c:
A variable is external if it is defined outside of any function. Thus the stack and the stack index that must be shared by `push`anf `pop`are defined outside these functions. But `main`itseld does not refer to the stack or stack position -  the representation can be hidden.

### Comments on code in getop.c:
The function fetches the next operator or operand. 
What are `getch`and `ungetch`?

It is often the case that a program cannot determine that it has read enough input until it has read too much. One instance is collecting characters that make up a number: until the first non-digit is seen, the number is not complete. But then the program has read one character too far, a character that it is not prepared for.

The problem would be solved if it were possible to ``un-read'' the unwanted character. Then, every time the program reads one character too many, it could push it back on the input, so the rest of the code could behave as if it had never been read. Fortunately, it's easy to simulate un-getting a character, by writing a pair of cooperating functions. getch delivers the next input character to be considered; ungetch will return them before reading new input.

How they work together is simple. ungetch puts the pushed-back characters into a shared buffer -- a character array. getch reads from the buffer if there is anything else, and calls getchar if the buffer is empty. There must also be an index variable that records the position of the current character in the buffer.
Since the buffer and the index are shared by getch and ungetch and must retain their values between calls, they must be external to both routines.

Remark: to avoid `stack empty`, enter operands and operators as space-separated tokens, for example:
```bash
printf '1 2 - 4 5 + *\n' | ./polishcalc
```
